---
title: "iSchool 1st Year Review" 
date: 2024-01-07
url: /1y_review/
aliases:
tags: ["iSchool"]
author: "Do Won Kim"
description: "iSchool 1st Year Review" 
summary: "2023-2024 iSchool 1st Year Review" 
showToc: true
disableAnchoredHeadings: false

---

# Overview
This portfolio is for the first-year review to fulfill the Ph.D. milestone at the University of Maryland's College of Information Studies. 

---

# 1. Coursework
This section outlines courses that I have taken to fulfill my coursework.

I have transferred some of my previous institution's credit (Seoul National University): 
- **Research Method**: (1) Quantitative Political Analysis, (2) Data Anlytics for Int'l Commerce
- **Specialized Area**: (1) Topics in Comm Theories, (2) Election Campaign

At UMD, I took 5 courses. 
- **iSchool Core Courses**: INST800, INST801, INST802
- **Research Method**: JOUR779P
- **Specialized Area**: COMM738A 

## 1.1. Fall 2023
**INST800** || The Engaged Intellectual: An Introduction to Research and Academic Work 
+ [Syllabus](/INST800_syllabus.pdf)
+ Class Project: 
  + [Tutorial](https://do-won.github.io/blog2/) on linking obsidian with zotero 
  + [Online Portfolio](https://do-won.github.io)
+ Grade: A
 
**INST801** || Theoretical and Epistemological Foundations in Information Studies 
+ [Syllabus](/INST801_syllabus.pdf)
+ [Final paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1zI2fLz1GVBVOE-W5d_-GlQmk8tIb6oJ5/view?usp=drive_link) (Epistemological and Theoretical Approach Essay): 20/20
  + Summary: This essay outlines a research agenda aimed at investigating the influence of social media on political attitudes and behaviors, particularly focusing on the spread and impact of misinformation. 
It tries to combine individual-level theories from economics and social psychology with system-level network theory. 
From an objectivist and post-positivist epistemological stance, my research seeks causal explanations for how digital media shapes political behaviors, 
using online field experiments and agent-based modeling methods.
+ Grade: A+ 

**JOUR779P** || Computational Text Analytics in Python
+ [Syllabus](/JOUR779P_syllabus.pdf)
+ [Final paper](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1-Dh2DCOUcXCCT9VWVgZ6aYXQRwwadWF3/view?usp=drive_link): 10/10
  + [GitHub repository](https://github.com/DO-WON/JOUR779-P)
  + Summary: This paper studies how emotional cues in content influence user engagement related to #SaveTheChildren campaigns on Parler. 
Findings suggest that while negative emotions and fear positively correlate with engagement, anger actually leads to less engagement. 
This research enhances our understanding of the role discrete emotions play in driving user engagement within conspiracy movements. 
+ Grade: A+


## 1.2. Spring 2024
**INST802** || Pragmatic and Methodological Foundations for Information Studies 
+ [Syllabus](/INST802_syllabus.pdf)
+ Project: Bridging Divides: Exploring the Impact of YouTube’s Algorithmic Curation on Intergroup Attitudes
  + Summary: This study aims to explore the causal effects of YouTube’s algorithmic curation on user behaviors and attitudes 
by implementing targeted interventions. Participants in an online field experiment will be randomly assigned to one of three conditions: 
(1) a deactivation condition where they will delete their watch history and disable future tracking, 
(2) a retraining condition where they will subscribe to a channel designed to mitigate intergroup conflicts after clearing their watch history, and 
(3) a control group that will serve as a baseline for comparison. 
The research focuses on how these different settings influence users' information environments and their subsequent behaviors and attitudes. 
By analyzing the effects of these algorithmic interventions, the study seeks to uncover the potential of YouTube’s algorithms to either foster or hinder democratic processes and intergroup relations.


**COMM738A** || Seminar in Mediated Communication: Media Effects 
+ [Syllabus](/COMM738A_Syllabus.pdf)
+ Project: Aligning Algorithmic Content with User Preferences: An Experimental Study on Stated vs. Revealed Preferences on Social Media
  + Summary: This research investigates the potential discrepancies between the content social media algorithms recommend based on users' 
revealed preferences (inferred from their online behavior) and their stated preferences (what they explicitly say wanting to see). 
The study aims to explore whether these discrepancies exist, to what extent, and why. 
Going forward, I plan to conduct an online experiment on Bluesky to assess how two different algorithmic feeds—one based on users' revealed preferences 
and the other on their stated preferences—affect the content quality, user behaviors and attitudes. 

---

# 2. Research Work
This section outlines research conducted during my first year as a PhD student. 


## 2.1. RA 

### 1) **`Mercury Project`** : RA work with Giovanni 
**Title**: Muting low-quality sources: A field experiment to mitigate the harm of inaccurate health information online

**Summary**: To reduce the cost of access to accurate information, 
this study investigates the effect of muting untrustworthy sources on social media and compares it with the effect of providing media literacy tips 
to improve discernment between true and false news.

✅ My responsibilities: 
- Survey questionnaire design 
- Qualtrics programming (JavaScript, Survey logic)
- IRB 
- Twitter/X API + DB (PostgreSQL) + Backend scripts (Python)  
- Data Analysis (Python, R)
- Generally: Project management + problem-solving  

🥳 Achievements: Poster presentation in IC2S2 2024! 

### 2) **`#SaveTheChildren - QAnon Project`** : RA work with Cody

**Summary**: Expanding on the final paper submitted for JOUR779P, we have done some robustness checks this semester.
(Using different models to extract emotional cues from texts, whether we find the same results for the different samples, etc.)
And we found that the results are consistent across different models and samples! 
Findings show that while negative emotions and fear in the content correlate positively with user engagement, anger is associated with lower levels of engagement. 

Going forward, we are planning to compare our results on Parler with Twitter data (mainstream platform).  


## 2.2. Collaboration with other PhD students

### 1) **`Prosocial Ranking Challenge`**
- Collaboration with Saumya (@UMD), Bao and Ozgur (@Luddy)
- 👀 First-round submission done!

**Submission Summary**: We aim to create a “bridging” algorithm that enhances mutual understanding and trust (Ovadya & Thorburn, 2022) in social media interactions. 
It prioritizes posts that evoke civil discussions while appealing to an ideologically diverse audience. 
To this end, we rerank content based on 2 criteria: elicited response and diverse engagement. 
We developed two different models for elicited response: one assessing the intensity of Affective Response (AR) to a post, such as happiness or sadness, 
and another assessing whether a post attracts Harmful Response (HaR), such as toxicity or offensiveness. 
These models are trained using the emotional content and toxicity levels of responses as variables. 
We measure the diverse engagement of a post through a metric we call "audience diversity” (AD). 
It estimates the range of ideological slants of the audience engaging with the content (Bhadani et al., 2022). 
If a post includes a URL, we assess its "source level" diversity by examining the ideological range of the domain's typical audience, 
which will be pre-calculated using a similar approach as described in Bhadani et al., 2022. 
Additionally, regardless of whether a post contains a URL, we determine the “topic level” diversity using the textual content.
Our algorithm first removes highly toxic posts, then reranks the rest as follows: Non-HaR posts with high AD scores are prioritized, 
while all HaR posts are demoted. Where there are ties, posts are ordered by their AR scores to enhance engagement.



### 2) **`Election2024 Project`**
- With Saumya and Swad (@UMD)

**Project summary** 
- Topic: Cross-platform spread of untrustworthy content during 2024 election 
- Focus: Short-form videos on TikTok, YouTube, etc. 
- Data collection strategy: Google Lens search of thumbnails obtained from untrustworthy sources on YouTube (Serp API) → Find those thumbnails on other platforms → Based on the timestamp (created time), infer spreading patterns


---

# 3. Academic Activities

## 3.1. Attended Seminars and Talks

**`UMD`**
- iSchool Defenses: 3 proposal defenses, 1 disseration defense
- iSchool Job Talks: 2 job talks + lunch with candidates
- GVPT: 3 [iLCSS](https://ilcss.umd.edu/) seminars

**`Non-UMD`**
- CCSE Video Research Workshop 
  - Automated Analysis of YouTube and TikTok Using Text and Image Data - Kaiping Chen ([Link](https://cla.purdue.edu/communication/ccse/video-research-workshops/))
- SSRC Lecture Series
  - Political Science as Problem-Solving - Cyrus Samii ([Link](https://www.ssrc.org/events/political-science-as-problem-solving/))
- [OSoMe Awesome Speakers](https://osome.iu.edu/events/speaker-series)
  - Reducing misinformation sharing on social media using digital ads - David Rand
  - Algorithmic recommendations and polarization on YouTube - Andy Guess

## 3.2. Academic Services
**`UMD`**

**CSDL** (Computational Socio-Dynamics Lab)
- 100% attendance + snack duty 🍿🍿
- 6 presentations
  - Fall 2023: 
    - (1) [Mercury Project](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10wy7oso3yHZ0b3rLJrH43tpd5KFDN_JrH5pk0514-lU/edit?usp=sharing) Intro
    - (2) [Paper Review](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1JGqvUpqQRvEgXX67jYlfOc6g-1ec02MYlrAAAYfwm0g/edit?usp=sharing): When Product Markets Become Collective Traps - Bursztyn et al. (2023)
    - (3) [#Election2024](https://miro.com/app/board/uXjVNGAvgQE=/) Project Brainstorming
  - Spring 2024: 
    - (1) [Prosocial Ranking Challenge](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1ES5rnb5KKfsjqkI1PFMWPge9NvkOpW_7F9YfnzW7BWk/edit?usp=sharing) 
    - (2) [Mercury Project](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/10wy7oso3yHZ0b3rLJrH43tpd5KFDN_JrH5pk0514-lU/edit?usp=sharing) Pilot Study
    - (3) IP review
- Worked with 3 CS undergrad RAs 

**HCIL** (HCI Lab): 1 internal review 

**TRAILS** (Institute for Trustworthy AI in Law & Society): Became an afiliated PhD student! 

**`Review`** 
- Conference: 1 paper in _ICWSM_
- Journal: 1 paper in _Behaviour & Information Technology_
- Program Committee: 2 papers in [_CySoc 2024_](https://cy-soc.github.io/2024/)  


--- 

# 4. Future Plans

## 4.1. Research Statement
I study the interplay between social media and democracy, exploring how social media platforms can inadvertently support or undermine democratic processes. My goal is to provide insights that inform platform design and evidence-driven policies, fostering a healthy, inclusive, and democratic online public sphere. 
Specifically, I am interested in questions like: What are the roles of social media algorithms in fostering political divides? How do social media algorithms influence individuals’ attitudes towards political outgroups (e.g. partisan animosity, affective polarization) and behaviors (e.g. informed decision makings, civic engagement, intergroup cooperation)?


## 4.2. Timeline

[Link](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1xyK_07_cqe_9ftj3fJJjzljnPIBoj2gaqD14pGrUiEQ/edit?usp=sharing)
